good evening from New York I'm Chris
Hayes it is not right what is going on
in America right now it is not right I
mean all of it
the public health disaster that we could
have mitigated if we had a better
president and better leadership the
economic devastation the tens of
millions of Americans are now facing but
specifically the way this country is now
failing to honor with dignity and grace
the more than 62,000 men and women we
have lost we have all seen the stories
about the overwhelming number of
fatalities at one funeral home in
Brooklyn New York 50 decomposing bodies
were found on ice inside four trucks
including rental trucks from u-haul the
funeral director said they were put
there because he had no more room in his
chapel I ran out of space he said bodies
are coming out of our ears a cemetery
worker also in Brooklyn says he is
struggling to keep up with the onslaught
of bodies sometimes a Lima who arrives
as early as 3:00 a.m. and stays late
just to lessen the load for the next day
fifteen hours a day and it's it's very
excruciating people tasked with burying
the dead cannot keep up with keep up
with the sheer number of deaths because
the virus is so contagious and so deadly
many families had not been able to say
goodbye to their loved ones in person at
the hospital and they often cannot have
traditional funerals or sit shiver or
otherwise come together to collectively
mourn because of physical distancing
rules it's just a horrible thing to go
through and then then come the costs at
a time when many are suddenly out of
work in New Jersey were 460 deaths
recorded today a son could not afford
the funeral bills for his parents who
died three days apart in Chicago the
family of a nurse a nurse who contracted
the virus had to set up a GoFundMe page
to cover her funeral expenses
she gave what we taught a human touch a
mother's touch and that bet she did for
everybody we're all just dumbfounded
that this happened here's the thing it
doesn't have to be like this there's a
very simple thing the federal government
our government can do right now to help
they could step in and pay for burials
for those who have fallen but Donald
Trump has not done it he has not
released the money now in the past after
disasters like Hurricane Katrina and
superstorm sandy the government has
stepped in to cover funeral costs
after three hurricanes in 2017 as
ProPublica reports FEMA paid out about
$2,700 per approved application so far
we've lost more than 62,000 men and
women to the virus if the federal
government wanted to provide that same
amount of money $2,700 to each of the
families of the deceased so they don't
have to go scrounging on go fund me to
cover funeral costs it would cost the
federal government around a hundred and
seventy million dollars that's it at a
time we're spending literally trillions
of dollars five hundred billion for big
business tens of billions the airline
industry tens of millions for the luxury
hotel companies owns the ritz-carlton in
Atlanta two weeks ago Senate Democratic
leader Chuck Schumer and congresswoman
Alexandra Ocasio Cortez both of New York
we're calling on the government to step
up and do this very very simple obvious
thing the least we can do is help
families bury their loved ones in the
most impacted communities in America it
is the very least we can do it is the
very core basic measure of human dignity
and in the richest country in the world
we should be able to allow
people to bury their loved ones in
dignity the least we can do it is the
least we can do but Trump will not do it
he doesn't need to go through Congress
on be clear here he just needs to
authorize FEMA to release the money as
former FEMA administrator Craig Fugate
told ProPublica FEMA does not have the
independent ability to turn on the
programs at will it has to come from
Trump in fact approximately 30 states
and territories have requested the
funding but Trump will not free up the
money now the president refusing to take
this very simple action as a small small
grace towards the citizens of this
nation it's unconscionable and that's
small little bit of an action of other
cold-heartedness it says everything you
needed about know about the way he has
navigated this crisis from the beginning
as the bodies pile up at funeral homes
and the cemetery workers become
overwhelmed and the death toll crosses
that of the Vietnam War the president is
raged tweeting an unhinged fashion in
the middle of the night and this
afternoon saying things like this I
don't think anybody's done a better job
with testing with ventilators with all
of the things that we've done and our
death totals or numbers per million
people are really very very strong we're
very proud of the job we've done he just
said the president I states just said
today our deaths per million are really
very strong more than 62,000 Americans
gone thousands weren't everyday day
after day after day after day he's very
proud of the job he's done they just do
not seem to think Americans dying in
mass as the federal government looks on
is that big a deal in fact there's a
whole group of the president's
supporters who just come out and say ah
no biggie
many people who are dying both here and
around the world we're on their last
legs anyway and I don't want to sound
callous about that you're gonna get hold
on you
I mean a simple man tells the truth
simple man tells the truth last legs
anyway on Sunday the Washington Post
published a story breaking down what
Trump had said in 13 hours of his
coronavirus briefings and while he spent
45 minutes of that praising himself and
his administration he spent only four
and a half minutes four and a half
minutes out of 13 hours expressing
condolences for the victims of the virus
what is happening right now in America
is a catastrophe it's a nightmare
it is caused for Matt's grief and for
national mourning for flags to be flown
at half-mast yet the families of the
victims have watched their federal
government fail them they have suffered
this horrible loss often without being
able to say goodbye or properly mourn
and now amidst the worst economic
contraction since the Great Depression
they are being deprived of the money
many need to give some last bit of
dignity to their loved ones and that is
not right